W-15692637 New Java  Module config for ACB (#2580)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: java/1.2/modules/ROOT/pages/configure-java-module-acb.adoc

= Configure the Java Module Using Anypoint Code Builder

Use the Java module in your Anypoint Code Builder project to define custom Java code. To use Anypoint Code Builder to configure the Java module, create a basic integration project in Anypoint Code Builder, add connectors and other components to your Mule application to process your business logic, and then configure the attributes for the Java Module. 

== Before You Begin

Before creating an Anypoint Code Builder integration project, you must:

* xref:anypoint-code-builder::start-acb.adoc[Set up and access the Anypoint Code Builder web or desktop IDE]
* Have credentials to access Anypoint Platform

> * Ensure that the Visual Studio Code Extension Pack for Java is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure that Extension Pack for Java is installed in Visual Studio Code.
```

[[creating-new-integration-project]]
== Creating a New Integration Project

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-create-integration-project"]

> When you create a new Anypoint Code Builder project, `src/main/java` and `/src/test/java` folders are created. For existing projects, you can manually create this folder. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you create a new Anypoint Code Builder project, `src/main/java` and `/src/test/java` folders are created. For existing projects, you can manually create these folders. 
```

[[add-components]]
== Add Components to Your Project

Add components to your integration project to build a flow:

. In the *Explorer* view, open the XML file for your project if it's not already open.

> . Select *Build a Flow* from the start card to create an empty flow:

Reviewer: "start card" is new terminology from an ACB perspective. We call that area of the IDE "the canvas" or "the canvas UI".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Build a Flow* from the start card in the canvas to create an empty flow:
```

Reviewer: or more consistent with existing doc
```suggestion
. Select *Build a Flow* from the canvas to create an empty flow:
```

> . Select *Build a Flow* from the start card to create an empty flow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Build a Flow* from the start card in the canvas to create an empty flow:
```

+
image:connectors::acb-build-flow.png["Canvas UI with starting card with the option to start from scratch, build a flow, or build a subflow"]
+
. Change the name of the flow: 
.. Click *Flow*. 
.. Click the edit icon. 
+
image:connectors::acb-change-flow-name.png["Arrow pointing to the flow name edit pencil icon"]
+
.. Enter the flow name, and click the checkmark. 

[[configure-trigger]]
== Configure a Trigger for the Flow
A trigger (source) starts the flow when specified conditions are met. If a connector has its own associated sources, you can use a connector-specific trigger to initiate the flow. Each connector trigger has a unique configuration.

You can configure the following sources for this connector:

> include::connectors::partial$t-studio-partial.adoc[tags=listener-scheduler-descriptions]

Reviewer 2: I see that this reference mentions these sources: 

- HTTP > Listener
- Scheduler

Are we going to add EDA too?

[[adding-components-to-project]]

> == Adding Components to Your Project

Reviewer 2: I think this is duplicated with the **Add Components to Your Project** section. Both mention building a New flow.

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-add-components-to-project"]

[[configuring-component-attributes]]
== Configuring the Component Attributes

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-configure-attributes"]

[[configuring-new]]
=== Configuring the New Operation

> Create a new instance of a class by using the *New* operation of the Java module. The identifier of a constructor includes the class and constructor names, and the constructor has a full description of its signature including the types of each parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new instance of a class by using the *New* operation of the Java module. The identifier of a constructor includes the class and constructor names, and the constructor has a full description of its signature, including the types of each parameter.
```

Reviewer: if you agree

> For example, to invoke the constructor `Me(String name, int age)` which belongs to the `org.bar.Me` class, then the identifier of the method is `Me(String,int)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you invoke the constructor `Me(String name, int age)` which belongs to the `org.bar.Me` class, then the identifier of the method is `Me(String,int)`.
```
this construction sounded unnatural to me:
to do x, then the y

To configure the attributes for *New* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

. Click the *New* component on the canvas.
. In the *General* tab:
.. Select the *Class* that contains the method to use.

> .. Select the *Method* to use. 

Reviewer: maybe not needed here, but there's a KI on selecting the method after changing classes -- you have to click refresh to see the list of methods in the new class

perhaps could say something future proof like, "If there is an issue with the method list, refresh the field." not great wording but whatever. Or we can assume they'll try that without prompting.

Reviewer: not that they're changing classes in this case, so... whatever you think is best

> .. Select the *Method* to use. 

Reviewer 2: For the New operation, it should be: "Select the Constructor to use"

. Select the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes: 
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description | Required
| Target variable | Name of the variable to assign the instance to. | No
| Target value | Expression that evaluates the operation's output. The expression outcome is stored in the target variable. | No

> | Error mappings | This attribute is not currently enabled in the UI. Set of error mappings. | No

Reviewer: how do we deal with info on stuff they can set in the XML but not the UI?

|===

> . Select the *Input/Output* tab to filter and view input and output data for the *Invoke* operation.

Reviewer 2: The same as in the previous comment. This section can be used to compare the input and output variables stored in DataWeave.

After you add your instance, <<configuring-invoke,configure the *Invoke* operation>>.

[[configuring-invoke]]
=== Configuring the Invoke Operation

> Invokes methods with the provided arguments in an instance. The identifier of the method to invoke includes the class and method names.

Reviewer 2: I think it's not clear that we refer to a class that was previously instantiated. Maybe something like: "Invokes methods with the provided arguments using a specified class instance." ?

To configure the attributes for *Invoke* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

. Click the *Invoke* component on the canvas.
. In the *General* tab:

> .. Select the *Instance* on which the method is invoked.

Reviewer 2: I'd change it to something like: "Select the class instance for invoking the method"
And also add: "This is the target variable that was assigned in the New operation."

.. Select the *Class* that contains the method to use.

> .. Select the *Method* to use. 

Reviewer: Do you think a note under "Select the *Method* to use" (like the one you added below) could be useful here, as well? If this is a first-time config scenario, the issue won't occur, but if they're using for reference and change the class, it could. 

> NOTE: If this is blank, click the refresh icon to populate it.

include::connectors::partial$acb-java-module-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

[[configuring-invoke-static]]
=== Configuring the Invoke Static Operation

Invoke static methods with the arguments you provide. 

> To configure the attributes for *Invoke* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the attributes for *Invoke Static* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:
```

. Click the *Listener* component on the canvas UI.
. (Optional) Click the edit icon to change the name of the *Listener* component. 
. (Optional) If you created a configuration file for the connector, select it, or add it to the XML:

. In the *General* tab, in the *Path* field: `\calculateTax`.
. In the *Advanced* tab, set the *Allowed methods* to `POST`.
+
Your code now looks similar to this:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core" xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	xmlns:java="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java/current/mule-java.xsd">
  <http:listener-config name="HTTP_listener_config">
    <http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
  </http:listener-config>
  <flow name="name1">

>     <http:listener path="/calculatePath" config-ref="HTTP_listener_config" doc:name="Listener" doc:id="511e4743-a5ed-4e74-8174-ead32ff575ea" allowedMethods="POST" />

Reviewer: regarding allowedMethods="POST" 
POST?

Reviewer: is that the default?

Author: @dukesphere There is not a default. This is the method being used for this specific example.

Author: If you don't specify a method, then all are allowed.

  </flow>
</mule>
----

=== Create a New Instance of Your Class

Since the method used in this example is non-static, you must create a new instance of your class:

. Click the *New* component on the canvas.
. In the *General* tab:

> .. Select the *Class* that contains the method to use, in this case it is `com.me.TaxCalculator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select the *Class* that contains the method to use, in this case, `com.me.TaxCalculator`.
```
I think it's a run-on after the comma with "it is"

.. Select the *Method* to use: `TaxCalculator()`.
+

> NOTE: If this is blank, click the refresh icon to populate it.

Reviewer: should this note also be in general steps above? added comment above about this.

	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	xmlns:java="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java/current/mule-java.xsd">
  <http:listener-config name="HTTP_listener_config" >
  <http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />  
  </http:listener-config>
  <flow name="name1">
        <http:listener path="/calculatePath" config-ref="HTTP_listener_config" doc:name="Listener" doc:id="tlryte" allowedMethods="POST"/>
        <java:new class="com.me.TaxCalculator" constructor="TaxCalculator()" doc:name="New" doc:id="ucwbpq" target="taxCalculator"/>
</flow>
</mule>
----

=== Add an Invoke 

To call your method, add an *Invoke* operation:

. Click the *Invoke* component on the canvas.
. In the *General* tab:
.. Enter `#[vars.taxCalculator]` as the *Instance* on which the method is invoked.

> .. Select the *Class* that contains the method to use, in this case it is `com.me.TaxCalculator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select the *Class* that contains the method to use, in this case ,`com.me.TaxCalculator`.
```

	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	xmlns:java="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java/current/mule-java.xsd">
  <http:listener-config name="HTTP_listener_config">
    <http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />  
  </http:listener-config>
  
  <flow name="name1">
    <http:listener path="/calculatePath" config-ref="HTTP_listener_config" doc:name="Listener" doc:id="tlryte" allowedMethods="POST"/>
    <java:new class="com.me.TaxCalculator" constructor="TaxCalculator()" doc:name="New" doc:id="ucwbpq" target="taxCalculator"/>
    <java:invoke instance="#[vars.taxCalculator]" class="com.me.TaxCalculator" method="calculateTax(java.lang.Double,java.lang.Integer)" doc:name="Invoke" doc:id="ulrzkz" target="taxResult"/>
    <java:args>#[{
        arg0: payload:price,

>         arg1: payload:percentAdditionalTax

Reviewer: I asked Josefina about something people are likely to want to do, which is change arg0 and arg1 to meaningful parameter names. Not enough time, but something to keep in mind.

[[adding-components-to-project]]
== Adding Components to Your Project

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-add-components-to-project"]

[[configuring-component-attributes]]
== Configuring the Component Attributes

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-configure-attributes"]

[[configuring-new]]
=== Configuring the New Operation

Create a new instance of a class by using the *New* operation of the Java module. The identifier of a constructor includes the class and constructor names, and the constructor has a full description of its signature, including the types of each parameter.

For example, if you invoke the constructor `Me(String name, int age)`, which belongs to the `org.bar.Me` class, then the identifier of the method is `Me(String,int)`.

To configure the attributes for *New* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

. Click the *New* component on the canvas.
. In the *General* tab:
.. In *Class*, select the Java class that contains the method to use. 
+
You can search for all the available Java classes for your project, including classes you create and native Java classes.  

> .. In *Method*, search and select the method to use. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. In *Constructor*, search and select the constructor to use. 
```

To configure the attributes for *Invoke* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

. Click the *Invoke* component on the canvas.
. In the *General* tab:
.. Select the *Instance* on which the method is invoked.
.. In *Class*, select the Java class that contains the method to use. 
+
You can search for all the available Java classes for your project, including classes you create and native Java classes.  
.. In *Method*, search and select the method to use. 
+
NOTE: If this is blank, click the refresh icon to populate it.
include::connectors::partial$acb-java-module-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

[[configuring-invoke-static]]
=== Configuring the Invoke Static Operation

Invoke static methods with the arguments you provide. 

To configure the attributes for *Invoke* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

. Click the *Invoke Static* component on the canvas.
. In the *General* tab:
.. In *Class*, select the Java class that contains the method to use. 
+
You can search for all the available Java classes for your project, including classes you create and native Java classes.  

> .. In *Method*, search and select the method to use. 

Reviewer 2: We can clarify that only the static methods from the class will be displayed.

+
NOTE: If this is blank, click the refresh icon to populate it.
include::connectors::partial$acb-java-module-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

=== Configuring the Validate Type Operation

Use this operation to validate that an instance is an `instanceof` a class.

. Click the *Validate type* component on the canvas.
. In the *General* tab:

> .. Select the *Class* that contains the method to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Select the *Class* that the instance is expected to belong to.
```

> .. Enter the name of the *Instance* on which the method is invoked.

Reviewer 2: The methods aren't involved in this operation :)

```suggestion
.. Enter the name of the *Instance* to validate.
```

.. Select *Accept subtypes* to accept subtypes of a class. 
+
Unselect this option if the instance has to be of the exact same class. 

== Example

[[creating-java-class]]
=== Creating a Java Class

Create Java classes containing methods to use in your application flows. The classes you create in your project are not available to other projects in your Anypoint Code Builder workspace.

> . In your Anypoint Code Builder project, create a new Java package under `src/main/java`.

Reviewer 2: To keep it consistent with the next step:

```suggestion
. In your Anypoint Code Builder project, create a new Java package called `com.me` under `src/main/java`.
```

. Create a new Java class called `TaxCalculator.java`, and add the implementation, for example:
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
package com.me;

public class TaxCalculator {

    private Double percentBaseTax = 7.0;

    public Double calculateTax(Double price, Integer percentAdditionalTax) {
        return price * (this.percentBaseTax + percentAdditionalTax) / 100;
    }

    public Boolean isTaxFree(Double price) {
        if (price < 10) {
            return true;
        }
        return false;
    }
}
---- 
+
In this example code, there are two methods:
* `calculateTax`
+
Receives the `price` and `percentAdditionalTax` parameters.
* `isTaxFree`
+
Receives the `price` parameter.

=== Configure an HTTP Trigger

. Click the *Listener* component on the canvas UI.
. (Optional) Click the edit icon to change the name of the *Listener* component. 

> . (Optional) If you created a configuration file for the connector, select it, or add it to the XML:

Reviewer 2: This isn't optional. If the configuration isn't set, the http operation won't work. So the first step should be to set up an http configuration (outside the flow).

> . In the *General* tab, in the *Path* field: `\calculateTax`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *General* tab, in the *Path* field: `/calculateTax`.
```
